# Django Chatbot Backend Documentation

## 1. Introduction
Welcome to the documentation for our Django Chatbot Backend application. This document serves as a guide for understanding the features, installation process, and usage instructions for the application. Our chatbot backend integrates Django with NLTK (Natural Language Toolkit) to provide users with a chatbot model capable of understanding and responding to natural language queries.

## 2. Project Overview
The aim of this project is to develop a Django backend for a chatbot model. The chatbot utilizes NLTK for natural language processing. 

Key Features:
- Natural language processing for chatbot responses

## 3. Installation Guide
Backend (Django):
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/imeneHamida/DjangoChatBot.git

# Navigate to the DjangoChatbot directory
cd djangoChatbot

# Install Django and other dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run Django migrations
python manage.py migrate

# Start the Django server
python manage.py runserver
```
Required Python Packages:
```bash
# Install NLTK
pip install nltk

# Install SpeechRecognition
pip install SpeechRecognition
```
## 4. Usage Instructions
### User Interaction with Chatbot:
1. Run the Django server.
2. Speak into the microphone and give orders.
3. Receive responses generated by the chatbot model.

## 5. Technical Details
### Technologies Used:
- **Backend:**
  - Django (Python)
  - Django REST Framework

- **Natural Language Processing:**
  - NLTK (Natural Language Toolkit)

- **Speech Recognition:**
  - SpeechRecognition library

## 6. Conclusion
Our Django Chatbot Backend application provides a convenient and efficient way for users to interact with a chatbot model using natural language queries. By integrating NLTK for natural language processing and SpeechRecognition for speech input, the chatbot offers a seamless user experience for generating responses to various queries. 

We hope this documentation serves as a helpful guide for understanding and using the application effectively.

For any inquiries or support, please contact [imene.hamida18@gmail.com](mailto:imene.hamida18@gmail.com).

Thank you for choosing our Django Chatbot Backend!
